Add copilot-instructions to repo (#35812)
dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs: .github/copilot-instructions.md

Author: Great suggestions.  It seemed to provide overviews on its own, but good to be explicit.  I added these. The resource is great, thanks.

- Reference snippets using triple-colon syntax:
  - **Use file-relative paths** for snippets specific to a single doc file:
    ```
    :::code language="csharp" source="../snippets/my-doc/Program.cs":::
    ```
  - **Use repository root-relative paths** for shared snippets:
    ```
    :::code language="csharp" source="~/tutorials/min-web-api/samples/9.x/todoGroup/TodoDb.cs":::
    ```
- For longer snippets, highlight specific lines:
  ```
  :::code language="csharp" source="~/path/to/file.cs" range="5-10" highlight="2-3":::
  ```
- Use modern C# coding patterns in all examples

## ASP.NET Core Specific Guidelines

- Use the latest supported version for examples unless otherwise specified
- Lead with Microsoft recommended approaches
- Include differences between minimal API and controller-based approaches when relevant
- For middleware, lead with the middleware class approach
- For Blazor, clearly distinguish between Server and WebAssembly hosting models

## Issue Handling

When creating a PR for an issue:
1. Read the full issue and all linked references
2. Study code samples from linked PRs for pre-release features
3. For labeled issues:

>  - **breaking-change:** Include breaking change guidance

Author: Good point!  It does look like that breaking change line should be changed.

What we have in this repo now as related to breaking changes:
At the top of our [What's new](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/release-notes/aspnetcore-10.0?view=aspnetcore-10.0) we state: For breaking changes, see [Breaking changes in .NET](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/compatibility/breaking-changes).

However,we have listed asp.net core specific breaking changes where we have content to provide in the What's New release notes in this repo:
Example sections where we call those out:
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/release-notes/aspnetcore-10.0?view=aspnetcore-10.0#response-streaming-is-opt-in-and-how-to-opt-out
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/release-notes/aspnetcore-10.0?view=aspnetcore-10.0#openapi-31-breaking-changes

We could change this copilot-instruction to better fit the situation, or remove it, or maybe we need to change how we refer to breaking changes in the aspnetcore.docs what's new.

Thoughts?

>  - **breaking-change:** Include breaking change guidance

Author: I updated that line of instruction related to breaking-change.  See what you think.

 - **new-feature:** State which version introduced the feature
 - **bug:** Focus on correcting technical inaccuracies

> 4. When you're assigned an issue, after you've completed your work and the workflows (status checks) have run, check to make sure there are no build warnings under the OpenPublishing.Build status check. If there are, open the build report (under View Details) and resolve any build warnings you introduced.

Author: ```suggestion
4. When you're assigned an issue, after you've completed your work and the workflows (status checks) have run, check to make sure there are no build warnings under the OpenPublishing.Build status check. If there are, open the build report (under View Details) and resolve any build warnings you introduced.
5. If the meta data and value `ai-usage: ai-assisted` does not already exist in any .md files edited or created, then add it in.
```

- Reference snippets using triple-colon syntax:
  - **Use file-relative paths** for snippets specific to a single doc file:
    ```
    :::code language="csharp" source="../snippets/my-doc/Program.cs":::
    ```
  - **Use repository root-relative paths** for shared snippets:
    ```
    :::code language="csharp" source="~/tutorials/min-web-api/samples/9.x/todoGroup/TodoDb.cs":::
    ```
- For longer snippets, highlight specific lines:
  ```
  :::code language="csharp" source="~/path/to/file.cs" range="5-10" highlight="2-3":::
  ```
- Use modern C# coding patterns in all examples

## ASP.NET Core Specific Guidelines

- Use the latest supported version for examples unless otherwise specified
- Lead with Microsoft recommended approaches
- Include differences between minimal API and controller-based approaches when relevant
- For middleware, lead with the middleware class approach
- For Blazor, clearly distinguish between Server and WebAssembly hosting models

## Issue Handling

When creating a PR for an issue:
1. Read the full issue and all linked references
2. Study code samples from linked PRs for pre-release features
3. For labeled issues:

>  - **breaking-change:** Include breaking change guidance

Author: ```suggestion
- **breaking-change:** For general .NET breaking changes, reference [Breaking changes in .NET](../dotnet/core/compatibility/breaking-changes). For ASP.NET Core-specific breaking changes, add details to the "What's new" release notes file for the corresponding .NET version in this repo (using includes if appropriate), and cross-link to the main .NET breaking changes page. If no content is needed for a given release, ensure the release notes still link to the main breaking changes resource.
```

 - **new-feature:** State which version introduced the feature
 - **bug:** Focus on correcting technical inaccuracies
4. When you're assigned an issue, after you've completed your work and the workflows (status checks) have run, check to make sure there are no build warnings under the OpenPublishing.Build status check. If there are, open the build report (under View Details) and resolve any build warnings you introduced.

> 5. If the meta data and value `ai-usage: ai-assisted` does not already exist in any .md files edited or created, then add it in.

Author: ```suggestion
5. If the metadata and value `ai-usage: ai-assisted` does not already exist in any .md files edited or created, then add it in.
```

---
author: wadepickett
ms.author: wpickett
ms.date: 07-29-2025
---

# Copilot Instructions for `dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs`

## Introduction
This document contains general and repository-specific instructions for GitHub Copilot when assisting with the `dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs` repository. **Unless otherwise specified, all ".NET" references refer to modern .NET, not .NET Framework.**

## General Guidelines

### Issue Handling
When creating a PR for an issue:
1. Read the full issue and all linked references
2. Study code samples from linked PRs for pre-release features

> 3. For labeled issues:

Author: It is just these two labeled issues that required instruction that copilot could handle and needed.  I rewrote to clarify.

 - **new-feature:** State which version introduced the feature
 - **bug:** Focus on correcting technical inaccuracies
4. When you're assigned an issue, after you've completed your work and the workflows (status checks) have run, check to make sure there are no build warnings under the OpenPublishing.Build status check. If there are, open the build report (under View Details) and resolve any build warnings you introduced.

### Markdown File Naming and Organization
- If you're adding a new Markdown file, it should be named in all lowercase with hyphens separating words. Also, omit any filler words such as "the" or "a" from the file name.

### API References and Verification

> - Never guess API documentation IDs, always verify. If unable to verfy, say so.

Author: ```suggestion
- Never guess API documentation IDs, always verify. If unable to verify, say so.
```

> - Check if features were introduced after .NET Core 3.1

Author: I removed.  I think this was a line left over from previous logic that was also removed.

- Default to most compatible syntax when uncertain

### Links and References
- Use relative links for files within this repo

> - When adding external links into a document, strip out the language/culture segment of the URL if present (example: remove the `en-us` or `en` part of links to English versions of webpages)

Reviewer: I've never seen -en-by itself; not needed in this example

``suggestion
- When adding external links into a document, strip out the language/culture segment of the URL if present (example: remove the `en-us` part of links to English versions of webpages)
```

Reviewer 2: I've seen it several times over the years. The one that jumps to mind is Wikipedia ...

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/.net

... and ...

https://wikipedia.org/wiki/.net

... sets the host to English, given our culture.

- For learn.microsoft.com links, remove `https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us` from URLs
- Use cross-references for APIs: `<xref:api-doc-ID>`

> - Get doc ID from the relevant XML doc in dotnet-api-docs, and omit the first two characters of the doc ID

Reviewer: This could be placed near the earlier discussion about guessing or verifying API xrefs.

Author: Thanks, I moved it to where you suggested.

## Repository-Specific Guidelines
- Follow the [Microsoft Writing Style Guide](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/welcome/)
- **Repository Exceptions**:
  - Number ordered lists as "1." for every item (don't use sequential numbers)

>   - Use backticks, also called backquotes or graves, around content specifically for file names (`file.txt`), folders (`folder`), file paths (`folder/file.txt`), custom types (`myVariable`, `MyClass`), raw URLs in the text (`https://www.contoso.com`), URL segments (`/product/id/199`), file extensions (`.razor`), NuGet packages (`Microsoft.AspNetCore.SignalR.Client`), and code that should never be localized

Reviewer: You are providing examples; you don't need all the possible names here.

Surround raw URLs with angle brackets if you want them to be clickable.

```suggestion
  - Use backticks around content specifically for file names (`file.txt`), folders (`folder`), file paths (`folder/file.txt`), custom types (`myVariable`, `MyClass`), raw URLs in the text (`https://www.contoso.com`), URL segments (`/product/id/199`), file extensions (`.razor`), NuGet packages (`Microsoft.AspNetCore.SignalR.Client`), and code that should never be localized
```

  - For Blazor's Razor components mentioned in article text, use backticks around the name of the component (example: `Counter` component)
  - For any new or updated .md file, ensure the standard frontmatter (metadata) is included as specified in [Metadata for Microsoft Learn documentation.](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/contribute/content/metadata)
  - For any new or updated .md file added to the repository, ensure the following frontmatter (metadata) is included:
    - Metadata `ai-usage: ai-assisted` if any AI assistance was used
    - The correct order of metadata lines is to place the title (`title`) first and the rest of the metadata lines in alphabetical order. Example: `title`, `author`, `description`, `monikerRange`, `ms.author`, `ms.custom`, `ms.date`, `uid`, `zone_pivot_groups`

>     - Metadata `ms.date: <today's date>` with a format of MM-DD-YYYY.  If the file already has a `ms.date` metadata, update it to today's date if more than 50 characters are changed in the file.

Reviewer: You have access here to the mind of an LLM you don't have to limit yourself to counting characters; you can have Claude use his (her?) judgment as to whether it has been substantially changed or substantially reviewed and if either applies set ms.date to today

    
### Version Targeting Common Range Patterns
- Fixed Range: `>= aspnetcore-7.0 <= aspnetcore-9.0`
- Open Upper Bound: `>= aspnetcore-7.0`
- Open Lower Bound: `<= aspnetcore-9.0`
- Specific Version: `== aspnetcore-9.0`

### Code Snippets
- For code snippets longer than 6 lines:
  1. Create a subfolder named after the document the snippet supports.
  1. Create a `snippets` folder inside that subfolder.
  1. For the code file:
     - If the snippet is not version-specific, place the code in a file with the appropriate extension (for example, `.cs` for C#) in the `snippets` folder.
     - If the snippet is version-specific:
        1. Create a subfolder inside the `snippets` folder named for the version (for example, `9.0` for .NET 9 or ASP.NET Core 9).
        1. Place the code in a file with the correct extension inside the version subfolder.
        1. Add a project file (`.csproj`) to the version subfolder targeting the matching .NET version, if necessary to run or build the snippet.
- Reference snippets using triple-colon syntax:

>   - **Use file-relative paths** for snippets specific to a single doc file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - **Use file-relative paths** for snippets located in the same file as the articles that refer to it.
```

    ```
    :::code language="csharp" source="../snippets/my-doc/Program.cs":::
    ```
  - **Use repository root-relative paths** for shared snippets:
    ```
    :::code language="csharp" source="~/tutorials/min-web-api/samples/9.x/todoGroup/TodoDb.cs":::
    ```
- For longer snippets, highlight specific lines:
  ```
  :::code language="csharp" source="~/path/to/file.cs" range="5-10" highlight="2-3":::
  ```
- Use the latest, non-preview C# coding patterns in non-preview code examples
- Use the latest preview C# coding patterns in preview code examples
- Use the following code language and indentation standards for markdown code blocks or the `language` attribute of code snippets:

>   Content of the snippet | Code language | Indentation in spaces

Reviewer: Language code sounds better to me than code language.

Author: Updated thanks.

---
author: wadepickett
ms.author: wpickett
ms.date: 07-28-2025
---

# Copilot Instructions for `dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs`

## Introduction

This document contains repository-specific instructions for GitHub Copilot when assisting with the `dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs` repository. **Unless otherwise specified, all ".NET" references refer to modern .NET, not .NET Framework.**

## Repository-Specific Guidelines

- Follow the [Microsoft Writing Style Guide](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/welcome/)
- **Repository Exceptions**:
  - Number ordered lists as "1." for every item (don't use sequential numbers)
  - Use `code style` specifically for file names, folders, custom types, and code that should never be localized

>   - For any new .md file added to the repository or any updated .md file ensure the standaerd frontmatter (meta data) specified by the Style Guide is included.

Author: You are right, thanks!  It should have referred to a separate guide for metadata:  https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/contribute/content/metadata.  I will update.

  - For any new .md file added to the repository or any updated .md file ensure the following frontmatter (meta data) is included.
    - Metadata `ai-usage: ai-assisted` if any AI assistance was used
    - Metadata `ms.date: <today's date>` with a format of DD-MM-YYYY.  If the file already has a `ms.date` metadata, update it to today's date if more than 50 characters have changed in the file.
    
## Version Targeting

> ### Detection Priority Order

Author: Good point. Removed.

1. **Explicit PR/Issue Instructions** - Prioritize explicit version ranges mentioned
2. **File Metadata** - Check YAML frontmatter for specifications
3. **Inline Moniker Tags** - Look for version range specifications
4. **Repository Branch Context** - Consider branch where PR will be merged
5. **Directory Structure** - Check for version-specific directories

### Common Range Patterns
- Fixed Range: `>= aspnetcore-7.0 <= aspnetcore-9.0`
- Open Upper Bound: `>= aspnetcore-7.0`
- Open Lower Bound: `<= aspnetcore-9.0`
- Specific Version: `== aspnetcore-9.0`

## API References and Verification

- Never guess API documentation IDs, always verify.  If unable to verfy, say so.
- Check if features were introduced after .NET Core 3.1
- Default to most compatible syntax when uncertain
- For breaking changes, check:
  - Changes to default behavior of existing APIs
  - Removed or renamed public API elements
  - Modified method signatures or return types
  - Changed serialization formats
  - Altered dependency requirements
  - Changes to configuration schema

## Links and References

- Use **relative links** for files within this repo

> - For learn.microsoft.com links, **remove** `https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us` from URLs

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- For learn.microsoft.com links, remove `https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us` from URLs
```

> - Use cross-references for APIs: `<xref:api-doc-ID>`

Reviewer 2: Are Lines 56-58 specific enough for Copilot?

- Get doc ID from the relevant XML doc in dotnet-api-docs
- Omit first two characters of the doc ID

## Markdown File Naming and Organization

- If you're adding a new Markdown file, it should be named in all lowercase with hyphens separating words. Also, omit any filler words such as "the" or "a" from the file name.
  
## Code Snippets

- For snippets **longer than 6 lines**:

>   - Place in separate `.cs` file in a `snippets` folder next to the Markdown file

Author: I replaced with your suggestions here and a few edits.

  - Create a subfolder named after the document
  - For version-specific code, include a version folder
  - Add a simple `.csproj` file targeting the appropriate .NET version

- Reference snippets using triple-colon syntax:
  - **Use file-relative paths** for snippets specific to a single doc file:
    ```
    :::code language="csharp" source="../snippets/my-doc/Program.cs":::
    ```
  - **Use repository root-relative paths** for shared snippets:
    ```
    :::code language="csharp" source="~/tutorials/min-web-api/samples/9.x/todoGroup/TodoDb.cs":::
    ```
- For longer snippets, highlight specific lines:
  ```
  :::code language="csharp" source="~/path/to/file.cs" range="5-10" highlight="2-3":::
  ```

> - Use modern C# coding patterns in all examples

Reviewer 2: Possibly, the following elaboration for Line 85? .... plus a table of code languages and indentation? .......

```suggestion
- Use the latest, non-preview C# coding patterns in non-preview code examples
- Use the latest preview C# coding patterns in preview code examples

The following table indicates the code language to use for markdown code blocks or the `language` attribute of a code snippet and the amount of indentation to use.

Content of the snippet | Code language | Indentation in spaces
:---: | :---: | :---:
C# | csharp | 4
HTML | html | 4
CSS | css | 4
JavaScript | javascript | 2 (4 spaces for line continuation)
XML | xml | 2
JSON | json | 2
Console | console | 2
Text | - | 2
```

> ## ASP.NET Core Specific Guidelines

Reviewer 2: Doesn't this whole section just go under "Repository-Specific Guidelines" above?

> - Use the latest supported version for examples unless otherwise specified

Reviewer 2: Let's consider adding (but if I don't recall one is in the style manual, it shouldn't be considered) ...

```suggestion
- Use the latest supported version for examples unless otherwise specified
- Title and section header casing is sentence case (capitalize the first word and any proper nouns)
- For parts of a title or section header that normally use code style in article text (backticks around the content), also use code style in the title or section header (example H1 header: "# Modify the `Program.cs` file")
- Use code style for any words that shouldn't be localized
- For bullet lists, use an asterisk as the bullet marker
- Bullet lists should have two or more entries at the same level in the list. If there is only one item under a bullet, remove its bullet marker and roll that item into its parent bullet.
```

Author: They are mostly covered in the Style Guide but yours is a bit more explicit, which is good.  So I think add it., thanks!

- Lead with Microsoft recommended approaches

> - Include differences between minimal API and controller-based approaches when relevant

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Include differences between Minimal API and controller-based approaches when relevant
```

> - For middleware, lead with the middleware class approach

Reviewer 2: I'd be surprised if Copilot can interpret "lead" here. How about ...

```suggestion
- For middleware content and examples, use the middleware class approach
```

> - For Blazor, clearly distinguish between Server and WebAssembly hosting models

Reviewer 2: I don't think Line 93 is a good idea 😨 ... far too vague. No way to know how Copilot is going to interpret this, and it probably will interpret it poorly.

Author: You are right.  Too vague.  Removed.

- Use the latest supported version for examples unless otherwise specified
- Title and section header casing is sentence case (capitalize the first word and any proper nouns)
- For parts of a title or section header that normally use code style in article text (backticks around the content), also use code style in the title or section header (example H1 header: "# Modify the `Program.cs` file")
- Use code style for any words that shouldn't be localized
- For bullet lists, use an asterisk as the bullet marker
- Bullet lists should have two or more entries at the same level in the list. If there is only one item under a bullet, remove its bullet marker and roll that item into its parent bullet.
- Lead with Microsoft recommended approaches
- Include differences between Minimal API and controller-based approaches when relevant
- For middleware content and examples, use the middleware class approach
- For Blazor, clearly distinguish between Server and WebAssembly hosting models

## Issue Handling

When creating a PR for an issue:
1. Read the full issue and all linked references
2. Study code samples from linked PRs for pre-release features
3. For labeled issues:

>  - **breaking-change:** For general .NET breaking changes, reference [Breaking changes in .NET](../dotnet/core/compatibility/breaking-changes). For ASP.NET Core-specific breaking changes, add details to the "What's new" release notes file for the corresponding .NET version in this repo (using includes if appropriate), and cross-link to the main .NET breaking changes page. If no content is needed for a given release, ensure the release notes still link to the main breaking changes resource.

Author: ```suggestion
```

---
author: wadepickett
ms.author: wpickett
ms.date: 07-28-2025

> ---

Reviewer 3: Not sure if this adds anything or will just be noise.

# Copilot Instructions for `dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs`

## Introduction

This document contains repository-specific instructions for GitHub Copilot when assisting with the `dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs` repository. **Unless otherwise specified, all ".NET" references refer to modern .NET, not .NET Framework.**

## Repository-Specific Guidelines

> - Follow the [Microsoft Writing Style Guide](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/welcome/)

Reviewer 3: You might need to give access to this URL if you haven't already.

Author: Good point!  When I am testing it just through copilot it of course is using my own access, so it did not occur to me.  Thanks!!

- **Repository Exceptions**:
  - Number ordered lists as "1." for every item (don't use sequential numbers)
  - Use backticks, also called backquotes or graves, around content specifically for file names (`file.txt`), folders (`folder`), file paths (`folder/file.txt`), custom types (`myVariable`, `MyClass`), raw URLs in the text (`https://www.contoso.com`), URL segments (`/product/id/199`), file extensions (`.razor`), NuGet packages (`Microsoft.AspNetCore.SignalR.Client`), and code that should never be localized
  - For Blazor's Razor components mentioned in article text, use backticks around the name of the component (example: `Counter` component)

>   - For any new .md file added to the repository or any updated .md file ensure the standaerd frontmatter (meta data) specified by the Style Guide is included.

Author: ```suggestion
  - For any new .md file added to the repository or any updated .md file ensure the standard frontmatter (metadata) is included as specified in the topic [Metadata for Microsoft Learn documentation.](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/contribute/content/metadata)
```

5. **Directory Structure** - Check for version-specific directories

### Common Range Patterns
- Fixed Range: `>= aspnetcore-7.0 <= aspnetcore-9.0`
- Open Upper Bound: `>= aspnetcore-7.0`
- Open Lower Bound: `<= aspnetcore-9.0`
- Specific Version: `== aspnetcore-9.0`

## API References and Verification

- Never guess API documentation IDs, always verify. If unable to verfy, say so.
- Check if features were introduced after .NET Core 3.1
- Default to most compatible syntax when uncertain
- For breaking changes, check:
  - Changes to default behavior of existing APIs
  - Removed or renamed public API elements
  - Modified method signatures or return types
  - Changed serialization formats
  - Altered dependency requirements
  - Changes to configuration schema

## Links and References

- Use relative links for files within this repo
- When adding external links into a document, strip out the language/culture segment of the URL if present (example: remove the `en-us` or `en` part of links to English versions of webpages)
- For learn.microsoft.com links, remove `https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us` from URLs
- Use cross-references for APIs: `<xref:api-doc-ID>`

> - Get doc ID from the relevant XML doc in dotnet-api-docs
> - Omit first two characters of the doc ID

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Get doc ID from the relevant XML doc in dotnet-api-docs, and omit the first two characters of the doc ID
```

- Use the latest supported version for examples unless otherwise specified
- Title and section header casing is sentence case (capitalize the first word and any proper nouns)
- For parts of a title or section header that normally use code style in article text (backticks around the content), also use code style in the title or section header (example H1 header: "# Modify the `Program.cs` file")
- Use code style for any words that shouldn't be localized
- For bullet lists, use an asterisk as the bullet marker
- Bullet lists should have two or more entries at the same level in the list. If there is only one item under a bullet, remove its bullet marker and roll that item into its parent bullet.
- Lead with Microsoft recommended approaches
- Include differences between Minimal API and controller-based approaches when relevant
- For middleware content and examples, use the middleware class approach
- For Blazor, clearly distinguish between Server and WebAssembly hosting models

## Issue Handling

When creating a PR for an issue:
1. Read the full issue and all linked references
2. Study code samples from linked PRs for pre-release features
3. For labeled issues:

>  - **breaking-change:** For general .NET breaking changes, reference [Breaking changes in .NET](../dotnet/core/compatibility/breaking-changes). For ASP.NET Core-specific breaking changes, add details to the "What's new" release notes file for the corresponding .NET version in this repo (using includes if appropriate), and cross-link to the main .NET breaking changes page. If no content is needed for a given release, ensure the release notes still link to the main breaking changes resource.

Reviewer 3: Remove the breaking change bullet?
